---
layout: post
title: "Starting my first SWE Job at Crédit Agricole CIB"
description: >-
  My experience starting my first full-time software engineering job at CACIB, the corporate and investment banking arm of Credit Agricole.
author: ryo
date: 2024-09-13 23:06:10 +0800
categories: [Credit Agricole]
image:
  path: assets/img/cacib/cacib-logo-2-modified.png
  alt: CACIB Logo
show_image_in_post: false
toc: true
comments: false
pin: false
published: true
---

## How I ended up here

My previous experiences during my internship were with [startups (Reluvate Technologies)](/posts/reluvate-intern/) and [mid-sized companies (SP Group)](/posts/sp-intern/). To complete the cycle, I wanted to work in a large MNC that is tech-focused and belongs to the financial industry.

#### Why large?

1. I like to try new things.
2. I want to be exposed to large, complex applications, with concerns that otherwise would not exist, such as the need for high scalability, availability, security, and large-scale real-time data processing. Experience handling these non-functional requirements would be fun (and helpful).
3. Large companies tend to have established processes for mentoring, training, and progression. I'm curious to see what that's like.

#### Why tech-focused?

1. I want to be exposed to an environment with proper product/development processes, as well as an engineering culture that puts emphasis on best development practices.
2. I want to be surrounded by people in tech, this way I will probably end up learning more.
3. The less tech is treated as a cost-center and the more it contributes to the company's bottom-line, the better the opportunities for an SWE like me to be part of something technically challenging, impactful and isn't a tech-debt nightmare, ergo the more I learn. I'll probably be treated better too.

#### Why the financial industry?

1. Wherever I work, I'll have to be part of an industry. As I work, I will gain domain knowledge. In my opinion, good financial literacy is extremely important. Why not gain domain knowledge in an industry which can be directly applicable to my daily life outside of work? This is also a reason I chose to specialize in Financial Technology in school.
2. My financial knowledge is poor and needs to improve. What better way to do so than by actually working in finance?
3. The financial services sector is a large part of the world's economy and moves a lot of money (what a surprise am I right?). Where there's money there's investment, including investment into tech. I work in tech, I enjoy being invested in :sunglasses:.

## About the Company

## My Onboarding Experience

## Moving Forward
